.TH "FCOEMON" "8" "December 22, 2008" "Open-FCoE Applications" "Open-FCoE Tools"
.SH "NAME"
\fBfcoemon\fR \- The Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE) administration tool
          for monitoring and processing events from DCB daemon.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBfcoemon\fR [\fB\-h\fR | \fB\-\-help\fR]
.P
\fBfcoemon\fR [\fB\-v\fR | \fB\-\-version\fR]
.P
\fBfcoemon\fR [\fB\-f\fR | \fB\-\-foreground\fR]
.P
\fBfcoemon\fR [\fB\-d\fR | \fB\-\-debug\fR]
.P
\fBfcoemon\fR [\fB\-s\fR | \fB\-\-syslog\fR]
.P
\fBfcoemon\fR [\fB\-e\fR | \fB\-\-exec\fR \fI<path\-to\-fcoeplumb\-script>\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBfcoemon\fR command is a FCoE management tool provided by the Open\-FCoE package.
\fBfcoemon\fR is the daemon of the \fBfcoe\fR system service.  When \fBfcoemon\fR starts, it establishes a socket
connection with the \fBDCB\fR daemon. It then sends commands to, and receives responses
and event from the \fBDCB\fR daemon. The \fBfcoemon\fR  will process the received responses
and events and invoke the \fBfcoeplumb\fR script to create and destroy the FCoE interfaces.
Since \fBfcoemon\fR depends on the existence of \fBDCB service\fR, there
are settings required for \fBDCB\fR before \fBfcoemon\fR can be started. See
the \fIDCB Settings\fR section below.

Notice that the fcoe system service does not depend on dcbd service. However, the fcoemon daemon will be
started by the fcoe service only if any one of the Ethernet port requires DCB service. In this case, fcoe
service depends on dcbd service.  If none of the Ethernet ports requires DCB service, the fcoemon will not
be started and, in this case, the fcoe service does not depend on dcbd service.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-h | \-v | \-\-version\fR
Show the version of the \fBfcoemon\fR command.
.TP
\fB\-f | \-\-foreground\fR
Run \fBfcoemon\fR in the foreground.
.TP
\fB\-d | \-\-debug\fR
Enable debugging messages.
.TP
\fB\-s | \-\-syslog\fR
Use syslogd for logging. The default behavior is to log to stdout and stderr.
.TP
\fB\-e | \-\-exec\fR \fI<path\-of\-fcoeplumb\-script>\fR
Specify the location of the \fBfcoeplumb\fR script.
.SH "TERMINOLOGY"
.TP
\fBPFC\fR \- The DCB Priority Flow Control feature.
.TP
\fBApp:FCoE\fR \- The DCB Fibre Channel over Ethernet feature.
.TP
\fBLLINK\fR \- The DCB Logical Link TLV (or Logical Link) feature.
.TP
\fBmultiq\fR \- See Documentation/networking/multiqueue.txt of linux kernel 2.6.28 or higher.
.TP
\fBskbedit\fR \- See Documentation/networking/multiqueue.txt of linux kernel 2.6.28 or higher.
.SH "INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS"
The DCB and FCoE kernel configuration options must be enabled, these were introduced in v2.6.29. Both the linux kernel and iproute2 must support multiq and skbedit.  The DCB must be installed with version 0.9.4 and higher.
.SH "SUPPORTED DCB EVENTS"
In response to each supported event from the DCB daemon, the fcoemon collects the current
settings from the DCB daemon and decide whether to delete and re-add the multiq queue discipline
and skbedit filter. The \fBfcoemon\fR does not destroy, reset, or create FCoE interfaces during
the DCB event processing.
.TP
\fBFEATURE_APP\fR
If an event message is received from dcbd and if the feature code in the event message
is FEATURE_APP (5), and if the subtype field is APP_FCOE_STYPE (0), we got a mode or
configuration change event of the FCoE application.  The fcoemon will then issue queries
to the DCB daemon to collect the current mode and configuration information.
.TP
\fBFEATURE_PFC\fR
If an event message is received from dcbd and if the feature code in the event message
is FEATURE_PFC (3), we got a mode or configuration change event of the Priority Flow
Control (PFC) feature.  The fcoemon will then issue queries to the DCB daemon to collect
the current mode and configuration information.
.TP
\fBFEATURE_LLINK\fR
If an event message is received from dcbd and if the feature code in the event message
is FEATURE_LLINK (6), and if the subtype field is LLINK_FCOE_STYPE (0), we got a mode
or configuration change event of the Logical Link TLV feature.  The fcoemon will then
issue queries to the DCB daemon to collect the current mode and configuration information.
.SH "CRITERIA OF CREATING, RESETTING  AND DESTROYING FCOE INTERFACE"
In this section the \fBdcbtool\fR is used to describe the conditions of the DCB feture status
beccause the meaning is more understandable and precise. Although you may also issue the
commands at run-time, the commands are intended only to be used for description purpose.
.TP
\fBPFC and App:FCoE\fR
DCB is configured correctly if
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 3
.BR "1)" "  The command \fBdcbtool gc ethX dcb\fR shows DCB State: on"
.TP 3
.BR "2)" "  The command \fBdcbtool gc ethX app:0\fR shows Enable:true,"
.TP 3
.BR "  " "      Advertise:true, Willing:true."
.TP 3
.BR "3)" "  The command \fBdcbtool go ethX app:0\fR shows OperMode:true."
.TP 3
.BR "4)" "  The command \fBdcbtool go ethX pfc\fR shows OperMode:true and"
.TP 3
.BR "  " "      the values of pfcup."
.TP 3
.BR "5)" "  The command \fBdcbtool go ethX app:0\fR shows appcfg. The bits"
.TP 3
.BR "  " "      set to 1 are also set to 1 in pfcup found in (4)."
.PD
.RE
.TP
\fBLogical Link TLV\fR
The Logical Link TLV feature is configured correctly if
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 3
.BR "1)" "  The command \fBdcbtool gc ethX ll:0\fR shows"
.TP 3
.BR "  " "      Enable:true, Advertise:true, Willing:true."
.TP 3
.BR "2)" "  The command \fBdcbtool go ethX ll:0\fR shows OperMode:true."
.TP 3
.BR "3)" "  The command \fBdbtool gp ethX ll:0\fR shows Link Status:up."
.PD
.RE
.TP
\fBCriteria to create FCoE interface\fR
If DCB is required at the Ethernet port, a FCoE interface may be created only if
the DCB and the Logical Link TLV feature are configured correctly. If DCB is not
required at the Ethernet port, the FCoE interface may be created. FCoE interfaces
are normally created by the \fBfcoe\fR system service.
.TP
\fBCriteria to Destroy FCoE Interface\fR
An FCoE interface will only be destroyed when the \fBfcoe\fR system service is stopped.
.TP
\fBCriteria to reset a FCoE interface\fR
The \fBfcoe\fR system service does not reset any FCoE interfaces.
.TP
\fBChanging DCB Configuration, Qdisc and Filters\fR
Changing the DCB configuration, qdisc, and filter are considered to be administrative actions.
When the \fBfcoe\fR system service starts up, it sets up the default DCB configuration, qdisc, and filter
for reliable FCoE operations. Administrators may alter the configuration while the service is running.
Changing the DCB parameters may cause the fcoemon daemon to delete the existing multiq queue discipline,
skbedit filter and re-add; but the fcoe service will not touch (e.g. destroy or reset) the FCoE interface.
Changing the DCB configuration, qdisc, and filter should be avoided while I/O traffic are in progress.
.SH "FILES"
The Installation of the Open-FCoE management tools include the following files:
.TP
\fB/etc/fcoe/config\fR
This is the primary configuration file for the \fBfcoe\fR system service. The default options in this file are: \fBDEBUG="yes"\fR and \fBUSE_SYSLOG="yes"\fR. The former is used to enable (select yes) or disable (select no)
debugging messages of fcoemon, the \fIfcoe\fR service script, and the fcoeplumb script. The latter is
to indicate if the log messages of fcoemon, the \fIfcoe\fR service script, and the fcoeplumb script are
to be output to the system log.  Use editor to set the desired \fByes/no\fR values.
.TP
\fB/etc/fcoe/cfg-ethX\fR
There is one of this file for each Ethernet interface \fBethX\fR found in the output of
\fBcat /proc/net/dev\fR at the time of installation. This file will be read by the
\fI/etc/init.d/fcoe\fR script and the \fIfcoemon\fR daemon.  The default options in this file are:
\fBFCOE_ENABLE="no"\fR and \fBDCB_REQUIRED="yes"\fR.  The former is used to enable (select yes) or
disable (select no) the FCoE service at the ethX port. The latter is to indicate if the DCB service
is required (select yes) or not required (select no) at the ethX port. If the former is set to no, the
latter is ignored. The selection of the settings should match the settings of the FCoE switch port connected
to the local Ethernet ethX port. Use editor to set the desired \fByes/no\fR
values for the \fBethX\fR interfaces.
.TP
\fB/etc/init.d/fcoe\fR
This is the \fIfcoe\fR system service shell script. This script is invoked by the \fBinit\fR process
or by the \fBservice\fR command.
.TP
\fB/sbin/fcoemon\fR
This is the \fIfcoemon\fR daemon only invoked by the \fIfcoe\fR system service script.
.TP
\fB/sbin/fcoeadm\fR
This is the program used by the \fIfcoe\fR system service to create or destroy FCoE interfaces.
.TP
\fB/etc/fcoe/scripts/fcoeplumb\fR
This is a script only used by the \fBfcoemon\fR daemon.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
If you have identified a defect please either file a bug or engage the
development mailing list at <http://www.Open\-FCoE.org>.
.SH "SUPPORT"
Open\-FCoE is maintained at <http://www.Open\-FCoE.org>. There are resources
available for both developers and users at that site.


