.TH "FCOEADM" "8" "November 4, 2008" "Open-FCoE Applications" "Open-FCoE Tools"
.SH "NAME"
\fBfcoeadm\fR \- The Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE) administration tool
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBfcoeadm\fR [\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-\-create\fR] [\fI<ethX>\fR]
.P
\fBfcoeadm\fR [\fB\-d\fR|\fB\-\-destroy\fR] [\fI<ethX>\fR]
.P
\fBfcoeadm\fR [\fB\-r\fR|\fB\-\-reset\fR] [\fI<ethX>\fR]
.P
\fBfcoeadm\fR [\fB\-i\fR|\fB\-\-interface\fR] [\fI<ethX>\fR]
.P
\fBfcoeadm\fR [\fB\-t\fR|\fB\-\-target\fR] [\fI<ethX>\fR]
.P
\fBfcoeadm\fR [\fB\-l\fR|\fB\-\-lun\fR] [\fI<ethX>\fR]
.P
\fBfcoeadm\fR [\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-\-stats\fR \fI<ethX>\fR [\fI<interval>\fR]]
.P
\fBfcoeadm\fR [\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR]
.P
\fBfcoeadm\fR [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBfcoeadm\fR command is intended to be the FCoE management tool for the Linux systems.
The \fB\-c\fR, \fB\-d\fR, and \fB\-r\fR options are used to create, destroy, and reset
an FCoE instance on a given network interface.  The other options are used to query the
information of the FCoE instance which includes the interface information, target information,
LUN information, and port statistics.  The \fBfcoeadm\fR command invokes the \fBHBAAPI\fR library
routines to obtain these information.  The \fBHBAAPI\fR library routines invoke the vendor\-specific
library, \fBlibhbalinux\fR, to grab the information from the /sys file system.  In other words,
the \fBfcoeadm\fR command requires to have \fBlibHBAAPI\fR and \fBlibhbalinux\fR installed on the system to work.
The \fBlibhbalinux\fR is maintained at \fB\fIwww.Open\-FCoE.org\fR. The installation instructions of
\fBlibhbalinux\fR also instructs how to download the \fBHBAAPI\fR source code, build and install with
the \fBlibhbalinux\fR.  The last option \fB\-h\fR is used to show a brief usage message of the supported
command syntax.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-create\fR \fI<ethX>\fR
Creates an FCoE instance based on the given \fI<ethX>\fR.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-destroy\fR \fI<ethX>\fR
Destroys an FCoE instance based on the given \fI<ethX>\fR.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reset\fR \fI<ethX>\fR
Resets the fc_host associated with the FCoE interface given by \fI<ethX>\fR.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR \fI<ethX>\fR
Show the information of the FCoE instance created at \fI<ethX>\fR.
If \fI<ethX>\fR is not specified the command will show the information of all the
FCoE instances created on the system.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-target\fR \fI<ethX>\fR
Show the information of all the discovered targets from the FCoE instance created
at \fI<ethX>\fR.  If \fI<ethX>\fR is not specified the command will
show the information of all the discovered targets from all the FCoE instances created.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-lun\fR \fI<ethX>\fR
Show the information of all the discovered LUNs from the FCoE instance created
at \fI<ethX>\fR.  If \fI<ethX>\fR is not specified the command will
show the information of all the discovered LUNs from all the FCoE instances created.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-stats\fR \fI<ethX>\fR \fI<interval>\fR
Show the statistics (including FC4 statistics) of the FCoE instances created at \fI<ethX>\fR.
The information will be display in one line on the screen per given time interval. \fI<interval>\fR should
be specified in whole intergers greater than 0. It specifies the time interval in the unit of second.
If \fI<interval>\fR is not specified, the default interval is one second.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Displays the version of the \fBfcoeadm\fR command.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Displays the usage message of the \fBfcoeadm\fR command.
.TP
where \fI<ethX>\fR is the network interface name, such as eth0, eth1, etc.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Creates an FCoE instance on eth2
.IP
$ \fBfcoeadm\fR \-c eth2
.P
Destroys the FCoE instance on eth2
.IP
$ \fBfcoeadm\fR \-d eth2
.P
Resets the FCoE instance on eth2
.IP
$ \fBfcoeadm\fR \-r eth2
.P
Show the information of all the adapters and their ports having FCoE instances created.
.IP
$ \fBfcoeadm\fR \-i
.P
Show the information of a specific interface eth3.  If eth3 has no FCoE instances created,
the command will show the error "No fc_host found for eth3".
.IP
$ \fBfcoeadm\fR \-i eth3
.P
Show the information of all the discovered targets from all the ports having FCoE instances
created (they may be on different adapter cards). A brief listing of discovered LUNs are
listed after the target they are associated with, if any.
.IP
$ \fBfcoeadm\fR \-t
.P
Show the information of all the discovered targets from a given port (eth3) having FCoE instance
created. A brief listing of discovered LUNs are listed after each target they are associated with, if any.
.IP
$ \fBfcoeadm\fR \-t eth3
.P
Show the detailed information of all the LUNs discovered on all FCoE connections.
.IP
$ \fBfcoeadm\fR \-l
.P
Show the detailed information of all the LUNs associated with a specific interface.
.IP
$ \fBfcoeadm\fR \-l eth3.101
.P
Show the statistics information of a specific port eth3 having FCoE instances created.
The statistics are displayed one line per time interval. The default interval is one
second if an interval is not specified.
.IP
$ \fBfcoeadm\fR \-s eth3
.P
.IP
$ \fBfcoeadm\fR \-s eth3 3
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
If you have identified a
defect please either file a bug or engage the development mailing list at
<http://www.Open\-FCoE.org>.
.SH "SUPPORT"
Open\-FCoE is maintained at <http://www.Open\-FCoE.org>. There are resources
available for both developers and users at that site.


